content/posts/2022-11-14-layout-divs/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Next.js app directory and 100% height
summary: Layouts of Next.js app directory are creating div wrappers, which could break designs
date: 2022-11-14
image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1498889444388-e67ea62c464b
tags:
- nextjs
- css
---

The new app directory of Next.js 13 introduces the great concepts of [layouts](https://beta.nextjs.org/docs/routing/pages-and-layouts#layouts).
But they come with a price ... a `div` wrapper.
Each layout wraps its children in a `div`.
This could break designs which are using a height of 100%.

As [timneutkens](https://github.com/timneutkens) (one of the Next.js maintainers) says,
the problem is temporary but it has to be fixed in react:

> First off: We totally understand your struggle because of the added elements.
>
> It's indeed added for now to handle keeping the right section of the page in view when navigating between pages.
> Unlike in pages the new router has improved scroll and focus handling.
> It ensures only the changed part is scrolled into view and put focus on.
>
> Right now this is a trade-off as React doesn't allow finding the DOM node from a component and
> it has to interplay with server components which can't just get a ref passed as they render outside the browser.
>
> We're planning to create a RFC for React to solve the "selecting a underlying DOM node of a component" for this case.

The original post can be found in the answers of this [github discussion](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/discussions/41745#discussioncomment-3964086).

## The workaround

The good news Next.js 13.0.1 add a data attribute (`data-nextjs-scroll-focus-boundary`) to those `div` wrappers.
With this attribute, we are now able to apply styles to the wrapper.
For example, we can specify `display: contents` as suggested by [bmcmahen](https://github.com/bmcmahen) on the same [discussion](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/discussions/41745#discussioncomment-3964086):

```css
[data-nextjs-scroll-focus-boundary] {
  display: contents;
}
```

Using `display: contents` prevent the wrapper from affecting the layout at all.

[developer.mozilla.org](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/display) describes `display: content` as follows:

> These elements don't produce a specific box by themselves.
> They are replaced by their pseudo-box and their child boxes.
> Please note that the CSS Display Level 3 spec defines how the contents value should affect "unusual elements" — elements that aren't rendered purely by CSS box concepts such as replaced elements.

It sound perfect for our use case, but they mention also accessibility issues:

> Due to a bug in browsers, this will currently remove the element from the accessibility tree — screen readers will not look at what's inside.

Here is blog post from Adrian Roselli, which describes the problem in more detail: [Display: Contents Is Not a CSS Reset](https://adrianroselli.com/2018/05/display-contents-is-not-a-css-reset.html)

I'm not really sure, if the accessibility bugs still exists, accordingly to [caniuse.com](https://caniuse.com/css-display-contents) there are still issues with it.

So if our only problem is the 100% height, perhaps we should just use:

```css
[data-nextjs-scroll-focus-boundary] {
  height: 100%;
}
```

Commit message:

Add note about new Next.js version

content/posts/2022-11-14-layout-divs/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Next.js app directory and 100% height
summary: Layouts of Next.js app directory are creating div wrappers, which could break designs
date: 2022-11-14
image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1498889444388-e67ea62c464b
tags:
  - nextjs
  - css
---

<Notification type="info">
  This article describes the behavior of Next.js between version 13.0.0 and version 13.0.7.

  Version 13.0.7 removes the extra div which is described here, see [#43717](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/pull/43717) for details.
</Notification>

The new app directory of Next.js 13 introduces the great concepts of [layouts](https://beta.nextjs.org/docs/routing/pages-and-layouts#layouts).
But they come with a price ... a `div` wrapper.
Each layout wraps its children in a `div`.
This could break designs which are using a height of 100%.

As [timneutkens](https://github.com/timneutkens) (one of the Next.js maintainers) says,
the problem is temporary but it has to be fixed in react:

> First off: We totally understand your struggle because of the added elements.
>
> It's indeed added for now to handle keeping the right section of the page in view when navigating between pages.
> Unlike in pages the new router has improved scroll and focus handling.
> It ensures only the changed part is scrolled into view and put focus on.
>
> Right now this is a trade-off as React doesn't allow finding the DOM node from a component and
> it has to interplay with server components which can't just get a ref passed as they render outside the browser.
>
> We're planning to create a RFC for React to solve the "selecting a underlying DOM node of a component" for this case.

The original post can be found in the answers of this [github discussion](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/discussions/41745#discussioncomment-3964086).

## The workaround

The good news Next.js 13.0.1 add a data attribute (`data-nextjs-scroll-focus-boundary`) to those `div` wrappers.
With this attribute, we are now able to apply styles to the wrapper.
For example, we can specify `display: contents` as suggested by [bmcmahen](https://github.com/bmcmahen) on the same [discussion](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/discussions/41745#discussioncomment-3964086):

```css
[data-nextjs-scroll-focus-boundary] {
  display: contents;
}
```

Using `display: contents` prevent the wrapper from affecting the layout at all.

[developer.mozilla.org](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/display) describes `display: content` as follows:

> These elements don't produce a specific box by themselves.
> They are replaced by their pseudo-box and their child boxes.
> Please note that the CSS Display Level 3 spec defines how the contents value should affect "unusual elements" — elements that aren't rendered purely by CSS box concepts such as replaced elements.

It sound perfect for our use case, but they mention also accessibility issues:

> Due to a bug in browsers, this will currently remove the element from the accessibility tree — screen readers will not look at what's inside.

Here is blog post from Adrian Roselli, which describes the problem in more detail: [Display: Contents Is Not a CSS Reset](https://adrianroselli.com/2018/05/display-contents-is-not-a-css-reset.html)

I'm not really sure, if the accessibility bugs still exists, accordingly to [caniuse.com](https://caniuse.com/css-display-contents) there are still issues with it.

So if our only problem is the 100% height, perhaps we should just use:

```css
[data-nextjs-scroll-focus-boundary] {
  height: 100%;
}
```
