content/pages/about.mdx, before:

---
title: About
---

I started this site to try [Next.js 13](https://nextjs.org/blog/next-13) and the new [app directory](https://beta.nextjs.org/docs/routing/fundamentals#the-app-directory).
To get to know the new version of the framework properly,
I decided not to write another demo application, but to start a blog.
In this blog I wanted to describe all the challenges
I had to overcome during the development of the blog itself.

## Tech Stack

The first thing I did was set the rest of the tech stack alongside [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/).

### PnPM

I choose [PnPM](https://pnpm.io/) over [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm) and [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/),
because at the time I made the decision, [PnPM](https://pnpm.io/) was the fastest package manager, and the most efficient at using disk space.

### TypeScript

Before I got into frontend development,
I worked almost exclusively with statically typed languages (mostly Java).
So working with JavaScript was a bit difficult for me,
especially refactoring was pretty scary for me.
I feel much more at home with [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) and the DX is so much better.

### TailwindCSS

I love writing styles in [TailwindCSS](https://tailwindcss.com/),
mainly because it takes the burden off me to come up with names for everything.
With utility classes, there's no need for all the naming of classes and variants.
I also find it much easier if everything that belongs to a component (logic, markup and styles) is in one file.

### MDX

Writing content in Markdown is much easier than writing in JSX,
but sometimes you still want to include a dynamic component and
that is the perfect use case for [MDX](https://mdxjs.com/).

### Contentlayer

[Contentlayer](https://www.contentlayer.dev/) helps with all the things that are complicated when using Markdown/MDX:

* Loading
* Frontmatter
* Type safety
* Hot module reloading
* Validation

Even though there are one or two hurdles to overcome,
it is a lot of fun to work with [Contentlayer](https://www.contentlayer.dev/) and
it makes the things mentioned above very easy.

Commit message:

Add meta tags and license

content/pages/about.mdx, after:

---
title: About
---

I started this site to try [Next.js 13](https://nextjs.org/blog/next-13) and the new [app directory](https://beta.nextjs.org/docs/routing/fundamentals#the-app-directory).
To get to know the new version of the framework properly,
I decided not to write another demo application, but to start a blog.
In this blog I wanted to describe all the challenges
I had to overcome during the development of the blog itself.

## Tech Stack

The first thing I did was set the rest of the tech stack alongside [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/).

### PnPM

I choose [PnPM](https://pnpm.io/) over [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm) and [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/),
because at the time I made the decision, [PnPM](https://pnpm.io/) was the fastest package manager, and the most efficient at using disk space.

### TypeScript

Before I got into frontend development,
I worked almost exclusively with statically typed languages (mostly Java).
So working with JavaScript was a bit difficult for me,
especially refactoring was pretty scary for me.
I feel much more at home with [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) and the DX is so much better.

### TailwindCSS

I love writing styles in [TailwindCSS](https://tailwindcss.com/),
mainly because it takes the burden off me to come up with names for everything.
With utility classes, there's no need for all the naming of classes and variants.
I also find it much easier if everything that belongs to a component (logic, markup and styles) is in one file.

### MDX

Writing content in Markdown is much easier than writing in JSX,
but sometimes you still want to include a dynamic component and
that is the perfect use case for [MDX](https://mdxjs.com/).

### Contentlayer

[Contentlayer](https://www.contentlayer.dev/) helps with all the things that are complicated when using Markdown/MDX:

- Loading
- Frontmatter
- Type safety
- Hot module reloading
- Validation

Even though there are one or two hurdles to overcome,
it is a lot of fun to work with [Contentlayer](https://www.contentlayer.dev/) and
it makes the things mentioned above very easy.

## Content

As mentioned above, the content of most articles are around the creation of this page.
But in the meantime I decided that when the site is finished (which will probably never happen),
I will still continue to write articles about software development on this page.

## Source

The code of the page is OpenSource,
licensed under the [MIT license](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/) and
can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/sdorra/sdorra.dev).
